# The-Wander-A-Computer-Music-Project

This is a program that creates a track that can be converted to MIDI format and played as music. The create_csv.c file creates the track and outputs it in a comma separated value format. To convert this to MIDI, use the MIDICSV conversion tool. Go to https://www.fourmilab.ch/webtools/midicsv and click "Download midicsv-1.1.tar.gz" to get this tool. Compile create_csv.c and then on the command line run "./create_csv csvtrack" where csvtrack can be any file name. Then run the csvmidi, one of the MIDICSV tools, using "./csvmidi csvtrack track" where csvtrack is the name of the previously generated csv file and track is the name of the generated midi file. Change the extension of the generated "track" file to .midi. You can then play it using any midi player.

Music Description

This piece uses algorithmic composition by mapping numbers produced by a complex algorithm to midi pitches and durations. The main algorithm is a variant of 1/f noise. Each note wanders a little higher or a little lower in pitch compared to the last note, allowing the piece to move from low to high in various ways. There is a secondary track that merges with the primary track and follows its pitch pattern, though it still varies and wanders from the primary track. There is also a third track that records note sequences from the primary track and plays them back at certain intervals. Also I used a template that the algorithm follows at certain parts to increase and decrease the direction of pitch change at certain parts that I specified. Overall, the piece changes from gentle wandering to aggressive and then back to a gentle wander. 
